site/content/about/index.md, before:

---
title: "About"
date: 2022-07-27
lastmod: 2024-09-03
draft: false

showDate : false
showDateUpdated : false
showHeadingAnchors : false
showPagination : false
showReadingTime : false
showTableOfContents : false
showTaxonomies : false
showWordCount : false
showSummary : false
sharingLinks : false
showEdit: false
showViews: false
showLikes: false
showAuthor: false
layoutBackgroundHeaderSpace: false
---

## Biography

I am currently a Research Scientist at [Maison de la Simulation](https://mdls.fr), a research laboratory involving CEA, CNRS, Université Paris-Saclay, and Université Versailles Saint-Quentin.
I obtained my PhD in distributed systems at Sorbonne Université in Paris under the supervision of [Marc Shapiro](https://perso.lip6.fr/Marc.Shapiro).
I earned my BSc and Engineering degree from École Supérieure de Génie Informatique (ESGI) in 2012 and 2015 respectively, and my MSc from Université du Québec à Chicoutimi (UQAC) in 2015.
Prior to my PhD, I worked as an engineer in high-performance computing, in the fintech industry and as a research engineer at Inria with the [Aramis team](https://www.aramislab.fr).

I also enjoy the occasional game of chess, a good book and a warm cup of coffee.

## Research interests

My current research interest include in-situ analytics in high-performance computing, with a focus on issues related to distributed systems and programming models.
To this end, I'm interested in:
- Transactional Memory Models
- Consistency Models for Shared Memory
- Conflict-free Replicated Data Types (CRDTs)
- Actor Model

Commit message:

update bio with 3rd person long and short versions + set layout to simple

site/content/about/index.md, after:

---
title: "About"
date: 2022-07-27
lastmod: 2025-02-14
draft: false
layout: simple
showDate : false
showDateUpdated : false
showHeadingAnchors : false
showPagination : false
showReadingTime : false
showTableOfContents : false
showTaxonomies : false
showWordCount : false
showSummary : false
sharingLinks : false
showEdit: false
showViews: false
showLikes: false
showAuthor: false
layoutBackgroundHeaderSpace: false
---

I am currently a Research Scientist at [Maison de la Simulation](https://mdls.fr), a research laboratory involving CEA, CNRS, Université Paris-Saclay, and Université Versailles Saint-Quentin.
I obtained my PhD in distributed systems at Sorbonne Université in Paris under the supervision of [Marc Shapiro](https://perso.lip6.fr/Marc.Shapiro).
I earned my BSc and Engineering degree from École Supérieure de Génie Informatique (ESGI) in 2012 and 2015 respectively, and my MSc from Université du Québec à Chicoutimi (UQAC) in 2015.
Prior to my PhD, I worked as an engineer in high-performance computing, in the fintech industry and as a research engineer at Inria with the [Aramis team](https://www.aramislab.fr).

My current research interest include in-situ analytics in high-performance computing, with a focus on issues related to distributed systems and programming models.
To this end, I'm interested in:
- Transactional Memory Models
- Consistency Models for Shared Memory
- Conflict-free Replicated Data Types (CRDTs)
- Actor Model

I also enjoy the occasional game of chess, a good book and a warm cup of coffee.

## Third-Person long version
Benoît Martin is a Research Scientist at Maison de la Simulation, a research laboratory affiliated with CEA, CNRS, Université Paris-Saclay, and Université Versailles Saint-Quentin.
He earned his PhD in distributed systems from Sorbonne Université in Paris, under the supervision of Marc Shapiro. His academic background includes a BSc and an Engineering degree from École Supérieure de Génie Informatique (ESGI) in 2012 and 2015, respectively, as well as an MSc from Université du Québec à Chicoutimi (UQAC) in 2015.
Before pursuing his PhD, he worked as an engineer in high-performance computing and the fintech industry, and as a research engineer at Inria with the Aramis team.

His current research focuses on in-situ analytics in high-performance computing, particularly addressing challenges related to distributed systems and programming models. 
His interests include Transactional Memory Models, Consistency Models for Shared Memory, Conflict-Free Replicated Data Types (CRDTs), and the Actor Model.

## Third-Person short version
Benoît Martin is a Research Scientist at Maison de la Simulation, CEA.
He earned his PhD in distributed systems from Sorbonne Université in Paris, his Engineering degree from École Supérieure de Génie Informatique (ESGI) in Paris, as well as an MSc from Université du Québec à Chicoutimi (UQAC).

His current research focuses on in-situ analytics in high-performance computing, particularly addressing challenges related to distributed systems and programming models.
His interests include Transactional Memory Models, Consistency Models for Shared Memory, Conflict-Free Replicated Data Types (CRDTs), and the Actor Model.
